The command line interface (CLI) is a place for typing commands to the computer. Early computers relied on the CLI to foster 
human-computer interaction. Nowadays, computer users are less familiar with the CLI and tend to use the graphical user interface (GUI),
an interface that allows interaction with devices via graphical icons. Unlike the GUI, the CLI uses text and keyboard to perform the same 
tasks. There are tradeoffs in using one over the other, namely the steep learning curve that needs to be overcome to be able to reap the 
benefits of CLI. However, it is not obsolete: it has its niche in the modern world and continues to evolve.

To operate the CLI, users must open a terminal window where commands can be typed. Every command line begins with a symbol called the 
prompt, and users enter commands after it. A set of syntax rules and keywords must be learned in order to know what to type in the 
terminal. The structure of each command is the command itself, parameters, and flags. The commands can be general in functionality;
parameters and flags must guide the command in performing specific actions. With these in mind, the user can use the CLI to travel
around the computer. The user can traverse directories and enter folders to find files. The CLI allows users to manipulate these
quickly and concisely: files can be copied over from one location to another with one command, and hundreds of files can simultaneously 
be renamed with similar ease.  

While the CLI provides experts with advantages over computer control, it repels beginners with its steep learning curve. For experts 
who know what to type, the interface will operate extremely fast. The CLI consumes much less memory (RAM) in order to use, and it does
not consume as much computer processing time as other interfaces. It does not require the common operating system Windows, and it can
even be used on a cheap monitor, making the CLI very affordable. For beginners who are unfamiliar with the syntax of command line,
learning the code is difficult as commands must be typed out perfectly. A single mistake can force a user to restart an entire process.
Hundreds of commands must be learned, and these instructions cannot be guessed. Compared to the GUI, the multitasking capabilities of
the CLI are not easily available. Incorrect commands can also be dangerous for the computer, possibly resulting in the deletion of 
files or the overuse of computer resources.

Though the modern CLI still relies on keyboard typing, it is continually used by those seeking quick command over a computer. The 
other benefits of the CLI, resource efficiency and affordability, also prevent the interface from becoming obsolete. In fact, some
are finding that the CLI and GUI can be combined. Of course, there are those that are advanced in programming and software development 
that find the command line faster to use. But, the combination of the GUI and CLI is an interesting one, and people find that graphics 
will affect the ease of use of the command line.

The command line is a powerful tool that is the preface to programming languages. In essence, the command line user is commanding
the computer what to do. The process is not for beginners; command line is oriented towards experts. However, once the command line 
system has been mastered, it makes it easy for experts to carry out tasks. The CLI has its advantages and disadvantages, but the 
modern world still has use for this system.
