The command line interface (CLI) is a place for typing commands to the computer. Early computers relied on the CLI to foster 
human-computer interaction. Nowadays, computer users are less familiar with the CLI and tend to use the graphical user interface (GUI),
an interface that allows interaction with devices via graphical icons. Unlike the GUI, the CLI uses text and keyboard to perform the same 
tasks. There are tradeoffs in using one over the other, namely the steep learning curve that must be overcome to reap the benefits of CLI.
However, it is not obsolete: it has its niche in the modern world and continues to evolve.

To operate the CLI, users must open a terminal window where commands can be typed. Every command line begins with a symbol called the 
prompt, and users enter commands after it. A set of syntax rules and keywords must be learned in order to know what to type in the 
terminal. The structure of each command is the command itself, parameters, and flags. The commands can be general in functionality;
parameters and flags must guide the command in performing specific actions. With these in mind, the user can use the CLI to travel 
around the computer. The user can traverse directories and enter folders to find files. The CLI allows users to manipulate these quickly
and concisely: files can be copied over from one location to another with one command, and hundreds of files can simultaneously be 
renamed with similar ease.  

While the CLI provides experts with advantages over computer control, it repels beginners with its steep learning curve. For experts who
know what to type, the interface will operate extremely fast. The CLI consumes much less memory (RAM) in order to use, and it does not 
consume as much computer processing time as other interfaces. It does not require the common operating system Windows, and it can even be 
used on a cheap monitor, making the CLI very affordable. For beginners who are unfamiliar with the syntax of command line, learning the 
code is difficult as commands must be typed out perfectly. A single mistake can force a user to restart an entire process. Hundreds of 
commands must be learned, and these instructions cannot be guessed. Compared to the GUI, the multitasking capabilities of the CLI are not 
easily available. Incorrect commands are dangerous, potentially deleting important files or overusing computer resources.

Though modern computers have advanced graphical capabilities, the benefits of the CLI, speed, resource efficiency and affordability, 
prevent the interface from becoming obsolete. For example, the popular collaborative programming site GitHub has downloadable command 
line tools to make code organization simple and efficient. However, newer users still rely on graphics for easier computer use. Thus, 
the CLI has started to change, and with the improvements in computer graphics, one change has been the potential combination of the 
CLI and GUI. Having this would make using CLI’s simpler than their predecessors. All the benefits of the command line would be available
with a more graphically-pleasing display. This graphic command line just one example of how the CLI is evolving, and apps that provide 
this are already available.

The text-based command line interface is not archaic in modern computer technology. It remains a powerful tool for maximal 
human-computer interaction. The CLI is not static: it is improving in ease as other computer technologies improve. Giving time to 
learn its language, the CLI can become a usable interface for anyone, and with it comes a deeper, more powerful mastery of the 
computer.
