The command line interface (CLI) is a text interface that takes commands and passes them onto the computer’s operating system to run. 
Unlike the graphical user interface (GUI), where the user can find files and directories graphically, the command line allows for the 
same functionality except with all text. Understanding command line is essential in becoming a skilled developer. Even for those not 
seeking the path of development, understanding the command line will help those collaborating with those that do develop. Though the 
graphical user interface may initially simplify computer use, the command line interface provides the more powerful and flexible way 
to interact with a computer in most cases. 
	
In order to operate the command line, the user must first open a terminal. Commands for the computer are typed in this terminal. With 
windows users, there is a command line included, but it is difficult to use and a Cygwin download is recommended. Every command line 
begins with a symbol called the prompt, and it is meant to prompt the user for input. In order to use command line, a set of syntax 
rules must be learned. Commonly, a set of instructions will be typed into the terminal after the prompt, collectively utility, flag, 
and arguments (or parameters). There is another command, Ctrl-C, that will fix incorrect commands that halt further commands. In a way, 
this command equals “cancel.” Other commands can be learned through a special command known as “man.” This stands for manual, and typing 
in a command after this one will cause the documentation for that command to be displayed. There are commands that allow the user to 
allow the repetition of previous commands. Command line allows the user to travel around the computer using commands. 
	
The CLI allows for expert-friendly control of a computer program or operating system. The interface is extremely fast if a user knows
what to type. The CLI also consumes much less memory (RAM) in order to use. The CLI does not consume as much computer processing time as 
other interfaces. This does not require the common operating system Windows, and it can even be used on a cheap monitor, making the CLI
very affordable. There are several disadvantages with using the CLI. It can be very confusing for beginners, and commands need to be 
typed out perfectly. A single mistake can a user to restart an entire process. Hundreds of commands must be learned, and these 
instructions cannot be guessed. The GUI also has multitasking capabilities that are not easily available in the CLI environment. 
Incorrect commands can also be dangerous for the computer, possibly resulting in the deletion of files or the overuse of computer
resources.
	
The CLI requires no mouse to operate, and so with modern day technology, with a mouse being so common, it seems obsolete to use the 
CLI when the GUI is so visually appealing. Also, many users may not need the benefits of CLI, namely speed and resource efficiency. 
However, the CLI is not obsolete and continues to find uses in the modern world. In fact, some are finding that the CLI and GUI can 
be combined. Of course, there are those that are advanced in programming and software development that find the command line faster 
to use. But, the combination of the GUI and CLI is an interesting one, and people find that graphics will affect the ease of use of 
the command line.
	
The command line is a powerful tool that is the preface to programming languages. In essence, the command line user is commanding 
the computer what to do. The process is not for beginners; command line is oriented towards experts. However, once the command line 
system has been mastered, it makes it easy for experts to carry out tasks. The CLI has its advantages and disadvantages, but the modern
world still has use for this system.

